# Fee-Management-System
A basic web development project based on PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.

Problem:
In the existing system, most of the records are maintained on paper. It becomes very inconvenient to modify the latter and there is a possibility that the same data stored in different registers may have different values which means the entries of the same data do not match. For example- if a student’s data is stored at different places, if one of those is not updated properly, it could cause concurrent data issues.  This inconsistent state does not supply the concrete information which poses a problem when a certain record is searched for. Also, sometimes when a huge number of students need to pay their fee it will be a laborious task to accomplish as everything is handled manually.
It takes more effort and physical space to keep track of paper documents, to find information and to keep details secure.  When mistakes are made or changes or corrections are needed, often a manual transaction must be completely redone rather than just updated.  With manual or partially automated systems information often has to be written down and copied or entered more than once.  Systemisation can reduce the amount of duplication of data entry. Lack of security is also one of the problems.
Apart from this, it is infeasible to search for a given record among huge piles of data, such search is time consuming and unwise. Also, files of data stored on paper are prone to the surrounding environment, hence the data may be lost or tampered due to moisture, heat, natural degradation of paper etc. Such situations can be overridden using digitized software such as the one developed here.

Solution:
The above problems can be avoided using an online fee management system. User is no longer required to check his register in search of records, as now it can be searched over the database by choosing some options provided by the software. The user need not type in most of the information rather he /she is just required to enter the desired options.  On the whole, it liberates the user from keeping lengthy manual records. In a nutshell, it aborts the work of loading the data of an organization. The students can pay their fee online without any issues.
The project provides a detailed summary of all the drawbacks of the old systems and how the new proposed system overcomes those shortcomings. The project takes various factors into account as well as the need and requirement of the users are taken care of. 
It helps the user to track the information of the fee as well as the user details easily. Editing, adding and updating of records is improved which results in proper resource management of student data. It is easy to maintain and manage any task at hand.
